Plasma Youth Sports Games
with Unsuccess of the champion,
would like to thank Slaven Bilić
for stepping in as the host.
Bilić is one of the first sponsors,
ambassador and is our biggest promoter.
He used his life and sports experience
in order to prepare high-quality content
with his guests for all generations.
Thanks, Nane!
Our guest today is
Zlatan Ibrahimović.
One of the greatest, best,
the most attractive,
the most distinctive, and the most
unique players of modern football.
And football in general.
Thank you for agreeing
to be a guest on our show.
And for hosting us here in Milan.
-Thank you as well.
Right at the beginning,
we must explain our viewers
our show is watched all over the world.
The show is global.
When I say that, I mean the number
of guests and the careers they have had.
We had Modrić, Đoković,
Ivanišević, Janica Kostelić,
and all of them are global stars.
However, the concept of the show
is more intended for viewers
who live in "our region".
That is our priority. The show will be
subtitled. -That will be necessary.
However, it would be great
if we tried to talk in a language
that people from that region understand.
Whatever you call that language. -Excellent.
Congratulations on that,
because that is also one of the proofs
of your greatness and courage,
that you decide to do it that way.
All right. We'll try that first,
and if we don't succeed,
then we'll talk in Swedish,
English, Italian...
In Swedish we won't really
be able to talk.
We just need subtitles.
After your career, and you played
as long as you could. -That's right.
You played as long as your knees
served you. -That's right.
You played for a long time, and after
a career that was truly incredible,
you became a personal advisor
to the club's owner.
It's clear that you stayed
in the world of football,
but does it compensate for the adrenaline,
the pressure and responsibility you had
when you were a professional player?
What I'm doing now
or when I was a player? -Yes.
Everything I experienced as a player,
helped me become a good person.
Everything I learned
and the environment I was in,
all the people around me, players,
and those who weren't.
That mentality of a winner
and that discipline that I had
All of that helped me to become who I am.
And to always look forward.
when I was a player,
I now use for other things.
Whatever I do,
my goal is always to win.
I've always thought that way.
I don't want to say that
I don't know how to lose.
Of course, there were
situations when I lost.
I know how to handle defeat,
but that's not in my nature. -I understand.
I always think that I must win,
that I want to win,
and I know how I'm going to do it.
That's just how I am.
Everything I do in life, I don't
do it the way most people would.
I always want to be the best. -You want
to get the most out of yourself.
Anything other than winning
means nothing to me.
It doesn't fulfill me.
I just want to be different.
Special. -If I am different from
others, then I am the best.
That's just how I think.
And I'm not talking only about football,
but about everything else I do.
Whether it's investments,
different projects...
Whatever I do,
I always behave the same way.
You were the protagonist
on the field, the main character.
There are many functions in football.
I mean the directors,
coaches, advisors, etc.
In my opinion, and I tried to work
in all these positions.
Only the role of coach fulfills a person
as much as being a player.
It's hard to talk about...
And you said you didn't want to be
a coach, right? -I didn't.
My opinion is that when a football player
reaches his maximum,
it's very hard to reach that
same level as a coach.
Coaching is something
completely different.
In coaching, it might help you a bit
if you were a good player. -Yes.
Because it is a completely
different kind of job.
Many players make the mistake
of thinking that being good player
will help them in the coaching career.
It's a completely different situation.
It's very difficult for me right now that
I can't be a professional player anymore.
That I can't help my colleagues anymore
and that I can't achieve good results.
That I can't contribute to win.
While I was playing football,
I felt somehow alive.
That was my world.
When he went out on the field,
I always had this feeling
that only one can be a winner.
I'll do everything to win,
but if you also want to win,
you'll really have to work
hard to achive it.
It can also happen that you win,
because I'm just an ordinary player too.
Whenever I go out on the field, I only
think about the fact that I have to win.
If I don't win, I feel as I'm not alive.
That's how I've always behaved.
Now, while working in this position,
it is very hard for me that I can't
help my players, the coach,
the fans, the club.
I am currently learning how
to help them in a different way.
However, it's very difficult for me.
Because it's not the same job
I've been doing for the past 25 years.
The situation is as it is.
Now I have to help them
in a different way.
I'm always there and I am growing.
When a player wants to become a coach,
he has to start from the very beginning.
And he has to progress slowly.
You're right, but that's hard to achieve.
You can's start from zero if you are...
The problem is person's ego.
And then he wants to be a coach
at a club that plays at the highest level.
That's the biggest mistake someone
can make. -You're thinking correctly.
Because if you make a mistake at such
a high level, there will be consequences.
And if you start your coaching
career at a smaller club,
then the consequences aren't the same.
The damage isn't same as when
you're coaching a big club.
When you make mistakes,
they follow you later.
And when they look for you,
they see what happened.
And when you start your career
at a club that plays at a lower level,
there's room for mistakes. That's where
you should be making mistakes.
And a person always learns more
while making mistakes
than when everything is going well.
And a person needs to make mistakes.
When I say you should
start from zero...
If I ever wanted to become a coach,
I would first coach children.
That's difficult. -I think that's
very difficult, because of person's ego.
It takes a lot of time. -Then you start
wondering why you need
that when you can immediately
start coaching professionals.
It's not a problem to start
coaching professionals right away.
If you are a well-known name
in the world of football,
he'll be accepted immediately.
However, the problem is when
you start making mistakes.
Because of those mistakes,
it will become harder and harder
for you to work later on.
Many have made this mistake,
despite being good players.
Today there are coaches and managers.
In a big club and with a strong team,
it isn't difficult to work,
although many people think it is.
Personally, it isn't difficult for me
because I played for the biggest clubs
and with the best players.
You only need to motivate
the players in the starting eleven.
You don’t need to tell them
how to move left or right.
That’s how things are done in a big club
where the best players play.
In smaller clubs, more work is needed
because they don't play at a high level.
Many coaches today want to change
the style of play in order to bring
something new into football
and to give themselves the main role.
However, it’s the players who are
on the pitch and who actually play.
You are right, football
is going in that direction.
Today we have coaches who are
managers and who talk to the players
as if they were friends.
They have a good relationship.
And we also have coaches
who overthink too much
and tell players how they should
move on the pitch.
In a way, they try to "program" them.
If everything is programmed...
-Yes, I know what you mean.
Then you don't need good players.
Anyone can play like that.
But you played... all your clubs
after Malmö's were big clubs.
In such clubs, what’s really
needed is someone to lead
a group of players, rather than
a coach who teaches them. -Exactly.
Now that you're a director,
can you compare Zlatan as a director
and Zlatan as a player?
I’m the same. The way I was as a player,
that’s how I am as a director.
However, now I look at football
from other side. -Yes.
I used to ask myself why we
didn’t do certain things differently.
However, I didn’t have
an answer to that question.
Only now do I understand why we
couldn't do some things differently.
Now the whole situation
is clear to me. -That’s right.
Now it’s not just about your centre-forward
position, but about the whole club.
I used to ask myself why we
didn’t do many things differently.
However, for the
club to function well...
A club is like a... -Company.
In order to be able to buy players,
we first have to earn money.
Sponsors are important, television rights.
-Yes, television rights.
So that viewers can watch the matches.
Every day I learn something new.
-But you’ve still remained humble.
I’m not rushing too much.
-You simply listen and learn.
I learn from professionals
from different categories.
However, when it comes to the game itself,
that’s where I can help much more.
What I know better
I can talk more about.
These are two completely
different situations.
You have two components,
and one of them is more familiar to you.
However, you’re aware that it’s not
just about the game,
but also about business.
-I'm trying to combine...
You know the game on the field,
and you are trying to learn the rest.
That’s how I would behave
if I were a coach as well.
My ego didn't get the better of me.
I never said because I was a famous
player that everything had to be my way.
When I started working as a director,
I decided to observe and learn.
I ask a lot of questions to learn
more and take it step by step.
You need to approach it as a coach,
going step by step to make progress,
and after that... A coach's career
is not the same as a player's,
which lasts 10 to 20 years,
depending on how long a player plays.
I believe that the more experience
a coach has, the better they become.
There will be situations
where you're under stress,
when things don't go as planned...
At those moments,
it's not about how smart you are,
but how much experience
you have, how you behave,
and how you control the situation...
-How do you react to that...
That's the most important thing,
but people think it's some kind of science.
Everyone wants to be part of football.
Everyone wants to reinvent football...
-They want to invent something new...
I was a player, and you were too.
Anyone who's played football knows
that if they played 50 years ago,
they'd still know how to play today.
Nothing has changed. Today, the game
is just faster; modern players are perhaps
bigger athletes; every player,
in my opinion, is an athlete;
and one thing that has changed
is the tactics.
It used to be about playing
with a sweeper, a 4-4-2;
now it's more of a 4-3-3;
now it's shifting towards having
more than 3 players in the back.
That really depends on how the coach
wants the game to be played. -Exactly.
That's changed, and that's okay,
but the way football is played,
that's not something
that needs to be changed.
Every player has their own
quality and character,
and from that, you need to form a team.
That's it. -That's the secret, yes.
The thing is, everyone wants to be part
of football because there's a lot...
There's money, fame, and power.
-Football, football...
But it's fantastic for you
that you're basically patient.
You're humble and patient. -Very.
You're patient, and as you said,
you take it step by step.
Step by step. But when I played,
I was different.
Back then, you thought, "Give everything,
and give it to me now."
Back then, I was full of energy.
No one could stop me.
They couldn't stop me.
I just moved forward.
If I had to go through a wall, I would.
-Through the wall, yes.
The way I grew up in Sweden,
everyone was kind of against me,
and that stayed with me.
It shaped me into who I am today.
Let's go back to the moment
when you mentioned 1981, Rosengård.
It's part of Malmö, which was called
a ghetto, a multicultural ghetto
full of foreigners. When you talk,
as I've seen in podcasts,
you don't hide that it was difficult,
and you speak of it with a sense of pride.
You're proud of it. -Very.
You're proud of how it was for you.
Actually, you mentioned that when they
asked you to describe it in three words,
you said it was hard, suffering,
and sacrifice. Tell us more about that.
I was born in Malmö,
in a small part called Rosengård,
which they call a ghetto, but for me
it wasn't a ghetto, it was my life.
I had everything I wanted; I didn't know
what it was like on the "other side."
We lived here and played.
It was a multicultural neighborhood,
with people from Africa, Asia, Europe...
we were all here, together.
My father is from Bosnia,
from Bijeljina, a Muslim...
And mother Jurka is Catholic.
-My mother is Catholic, from Zadar.
I was born in Sweden.
This is where I grew up
and played football,
and up until I was 16 or 17,
I had never visited the center of Malmö.
How is that possible? I read that.
-I was just in Rosengård. -Never?
Never, until then,
had I been to the city center.
And the center is close by,
20 minutes by bike.
Everything was in Rosengård for me,
school, football, home, mom and dad,
it was all here. We weren't in the city.
I didn't have a reason to go to the city.
I never went on a school field trip
to the city center. Never.
It's not a secret anymore,
but I stole a lot of bikes as a kid
to get to practice. I didn't ride buses.
I didn't have money for a ticket.
Either I walked or ran to practice
and school, or I'd steal a bike to go.
Everything was here, my whole world.
When I was 16, I went to the city
because a friend invited me.
I asked him, "Which city?"
And he said, "The city center, Malmö."
I said, "Okay, let's go."
That was the first time I got on
the green bus, and in Sweden,
those green buses take you everywhere.
The first time I got on that bus,
I went to the city center.
In Sweden, everyone is blue-eyed...
I couldn't believe people looked like
that in the place where I lived,
where I grew up, because I had never
seen the real Sweden before,
I was surrounded by foreigners.
At that moment, it was as if
a whole new world opened up to me.
I wasn't yet playing for Malmö,
I was playing for smaller clubs,
Balkan and MBE.
Those were two small clubs.
I realized there was so much more
than what I had seen before.
During that time, I went for a trial
at Malmö, and within two days,
they told me to come play for them.
I was 17 or 18 when I started high school,
actually grammar school. But that grammar
school wasn't in Rosengård,
it was in the city. From then on,
I took the bus every day,
back and forth from school and training.
I still stole bikes because I didn't always
have money for bus tickets.
That was when many doors opened up
for me, in life and in football.
In Malmö, there was more...
Well, when you play at home,
you play in Malmö.
When we played in Rosengård,
there were games, training...
Yes, yes, everything was local. -But with
Malmö, you go outside of Malmö.
I visited smaller villages. -Suburbs...
-Smaller villages than Malmö and such.
That's where I...
As a person, actually a young man...
You built yourself as a person then...
-I was a wild child.
Maybe a bit aggressive.
-Aggressive because of my family.
I can't speak for all of the Balkans,
but in my family,
we didn't really hug much,
we had a colder relationship.
That's how they showed...
-Old school...
Old school showing love
in an aggressive way.
That was also how I showed
emotions toward others.
When I played, I had a lot of
problems because of that.
When I yelled at players on the field,
it seemed too aggressive, but...
For you, that was normal.
-It was normal for me.
They said I wasn't okay and that I wasn't
a good example for others,
especially when the games
were shown on TV.
Because of them, I felt like... They
made me feel like I was different.
Like I was different from everyone...
That made me angry.
For me, it was all normal.
When I came home, we didn't say,
"Please, give me Coca-Cola."
We just said, "Give me that Coca-Cola."
We had a different attitude.
A different attitude, of course.
A different way...
For them, it was different, like for
Swedes, they didn't understand that.
You didn't fit into their framework.
-They didn't see me as Swedish.
But I saw myself as Swedish,
and that's where the problem arose.
For me and the people and me, I grew up
with and me, it was all normal.
Yes, it's just a different way,
a different upbringing.
That bothered me because I don't
want anyone to ever feel different.
Everyone wants to feel normal.
I'm not asking to feel like Superman,
or less worthy. -Yes, no one is special.
Because of those people, I felt like
I was different, and that bothered me.
I came there with a big nose,
brown hair, and 1.9 meters tall,
while everyone else had
blue eyes and blonde hair.
That was in Malmö, not Rosengård.
I didn't even speak like all those guys,
I spoke with a dialect...
You were different from them.
I was pretty different in that sense,
but I felt normal.
It was hard to accept
that I wasn't different,
but that I was the same as them.
At Malmö, there weren't many
foreign players at first.
I opened the doors for everyone...
For all those with
the same background as you...
In essence, you were the first
to open the path for all.
I opened the door for the opportunity,
but it's up to them to step through it.
I opened the door for you,
but it's on you to take action.
That's what I'm most proud of
from my time in Sweden.
The fact that you opened
the doors for foreigners...
That was important to me. I felt
different, and I don't want anyone
from future generations to feel different.
That was important to me,
and I'm more proud of that, even more
than football, from my time in Sweden.
You carry all of that from home, right?
You mentioned that your mom,
Jurka, was a cleaner,
and you remember her as a hard worker.
-She worked every day, cleaning offices.
My dad did various jobs
to maintain the city.
If there was any plumbing problem,
he would fix it...
He fixed things. It was
some kind of construction work...
Whenever there was a problem,
he was available to fix it.
He also used to sing, didn't he?
-Yes, he sang.
It was like that. I often spent time alone.
When my dad was working,
he couldn't be there for me. He couldn't
cook lunch at 1 PM or dinner at 7.
My parents weren't together. I lived...
-You and Sanela, your sister?
Sanela was with mom. My dad
couldn't cook meals every day.
He would make Bolognese sauce
that we ate for seven days.
I learned how to cook pasta and reheat
the Bolognese sauce we had for the week.
For me, that was fine. I had something
to eat, I had bread and milk,
and that was great for me.
That's why I say it's easier
for my children today.
They don't just have milk and bread;
they have many alternatives.
My parents gave me
everything they could.
That's why I say it was enough for me,
and I had everything I needed.
I didn't know there were other things;
I only knew about this.
That's why I say it was enough for me.
I'm telling you, if I had known
there were other options,
I wouldn't have asked for them. I was
raised to be grateful for what I had,
and I've passed that on to my children.
You must be grateful for what you have.
If you want more, you must work for it.
You said that very well. Today’s
generations have a problem seeing all.
Today it’s easy. -Everything is right
there, but it’s not. Not really.
I can even touch it. Before you could
see everything, but not touch it.
It was like a dream. -A dream.
But it was better for it to stay a dream,
than for it to come true. -Bravo.
You can’t lose your head
if it’s... -Unreachable.
You say your father had
a big influence on you,
that he never hit you and never had
to repeat himself twice... -Never.
He was simply dedicated.
-He was... -He had presence.
He was proud. The moment he looked
at me, I understood what it was about.
He never hit me or slapped me.
He would just look at me. I made mistakes.
We all make mistakes.
If you don’t make them, you won’t learn.
When I made a mistake, you could see
he was the head of the house. -Of family.
He was in charge. That’s how
I learned to be disciplined.
If he said I should be home at 9,
it was 9. I was home.
Nine and one minute, no.
Exactly at nine, I was home then.
I wasn’t afraid of him, I understood
that at 9:01 there would be problems.
Even though he never... -Never.
I was very disciplined.
That’s also a kind of respect.
Like I already said,
maybe it was aggressive,
but to me it was normal.
When I would go to my mom’s...
She had three kids. Different.
Father had two. Older brother...
I don’t know, maybe he grew up
one way, mom another way.
I lived with him my whole life
until I signed a professional contract.
There was discipline.
First rule... -Yes, rule.
The first rule was discipline.
That was the most important.
He would say that while he is there,
he decides the rules.
When you leave this house,
do whatever you want.
While you are in my house,
everything will be as I say.
That’s how it was. -That’s how it
should be. That’s just gone today.
That’s the old school... -Propper school.
-How it was done before. -Old school.
I think it was harder before than today.
Like you said. You can see everything
and touch it. Before, to do
certain things, like as a player,
for people to know who you were,
you had to play big matches,
at a famous stadium, to be on
television. Today it’s not like that.
Today you go to training and the whole
world can get to know you
through Instagram, TikTok... -YouTube.
-I don’t know if that helps or not.
Before we had to prove
ourselves more, work more,
we had to go through the path
to where we wanted to be.
Today one 10-second TikTok
and the whole world knows who you are.
That might open doors for you,
whether you’re good or not.
That’s why I’m grateful I saw
the old school and today’s school.
I saw both. -You saw both sides.
-The situation is different.
Ithink one thing, another happens.
And that’s how everything is today, 2025.
You have to adapt. -That’s right, adapt.
You can’t change the world.
You are who you are and
must adapt to the system.
That’s how it is today.
-You said that very well.
During that growing up...
You were born in 1981. War happens.
You were a teenager then, 12-13 years old.
Mother is Catholic, father Muslim.
Were there disturbances in relationships,
not between them, but among boys
you hung out with. -In the city
where I lived there were Croats,
Serbs, Bosnians, Albanians,
all of them. We were all like one.
It didn’t matter where you were from.
We respected each other. -When the war began.
Then the war started. I wasn’t
at an age to read newspapers.
I didn’t even have a phone. We had a TV
at home, but I didn’t follow the news.
You’re a child. -What do I remember?
I remember my father was always calling.
Talking, phone, phone.
He would tell me to go outside,
that he had to talk on the phone.
In the end I realized he was talking
with family in Bosnia... -In Bijeljina.
-To bring them to Sweden, to help them.
He was always on the phone.
Once I came to my mom’s place.
I ate more at mom’s. -Why?
Father didn’t cook, mom did.
Mom cooked more than father.
She kicked me out of the house saying
I ate for two or three people.
It wasn’t enough. I played
football and had to eat more.
I was more active. So she would kick me out.
-They lived close? -Close. Five minutes.
They were always close... -Because of you?
-Yes. One day we came to mom’s place.
I saw everyone dressed in black.
No one told me anything.
I asked why they were wearing black.
They told me to go outside and play football.
Why is everyone in black? They didn’t
want to tell me. Go play football.
Grandmother died.
A funeral was held.
No one taught me the customs and
they didn’t allow me to go to the funeral.
They always kept me aside.
To be that kid and do my own things.
Maybe they wanted to protect you.
-That’s what I want to say.
Father always kept me aside
and told me to go play football.
When all that happened, they kept
me aside so I wouldn’t feel it.
Another thing that happened was
that refugees came to Sweden.
But they had a different mentality.
It was more like, I’m a Bosnian,
you’re a Serb. And there were fewer Croats.
In Bosnia there were problems.
When they came to that ghetto, Rosengård,
a different mentality took over.
For me, Yugoslavia existed.
In my head it was still like that.
War happened. I had friends who were
Serbs, Croats, Bosnians, Albanians.
Those who came had a different...
-Mindset. -Yes. Very different.
Were they hurt? -We fought with them.
-Did you? -Yes.
They didn’t accept that such a situation
ruled. For us it was normal.
They were young, different thinking.
For me it was different,
because I didn’t have that mindset,
that we’re different or from other states.
Wherever I went to play, I always
thought we were the same.
That’s how I grew up and I didn’t feel
the war that much, because they protected me.
That’s why I can’t say much about the war.
-I get it. -I’ve lived in Sweden all my life.
I don’t have that... How do you say?
-You don’t have that charge.
The war didn’t leave a mark on you.
Your family protected you.
I don’t even have the right to talk
about it, because I wasn’t there.
I grew up in Sweden.
I can speak our languages.
My father is from Bosnia, Muslim,
my mother is Catholic from Zadar.
I never felt that.
-They protected you. -Yes. 100%.
You started playing football
at six years old, right? -Yes.
First Balkan, then later Malmö.
You say football was your way out,
your kind of salvation. -Yes.
-What about taekwondo? When did you train?
You have a black belt, right?
-Yes. My father’s brother was a boxer.
In Bosnia. -OK. -He had many
recordings of himself.
He had many recordings of Muhammad Ali.
We used to have VHS tapes. -Yes.
Today everything is digital. We had many
Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan movies.
I would always watch them and he
would play those movies for me.
Father and I watched them.
I watched the kicks and everything.
But it was a movie.
I said I want to try this.
I went to try taekwondo and I liked it.
I wanted to train it.
I trained taekwondo and football.
In the end, I don’t know if it helped
me while playing football or not.
But that’s how I played.
-What kind of goals did you score?
You couldn’t score goals like that.
-For me it was natural.
To lift my leg like this and control
the ball or pass it. -But only for you.
For no one else is that natural.
-I say it’s possible it helped me,
because I had... How do you say?
-Agility. -I was 1.94 tall.
That wasn’t normal. So when they
saw me, they would say that at 1.94
I do things like someone 1.60, 1.70.
-That’s taekwondo. -It was different.
Something new at that time. Today
all players are athletes, all are tall.
Before they weren’t that tall.
They told me to play basketball.
I only played football and that
was something new. -Yes.
You said mom and dad lived
five minutes from each other. -Yes.
There’s that famous story that
stayed with you your whole life,
about the fridge at dad’s not having...
-Milk, bread and Bolognese. Three things.
I tell my kids, if I could...
How do you say? -If you succeed.
If someone succeeds with those three things,
then you can succeed too.
How do they accept that? -OK. -OK?
-The way my parents raised me,
that’s how I raise them.
-Just different circumstances, of course.
We have different alternatives.
I have more money than my parents.
I think life is easier with money.
It won’t give you... -Happiness. -Happiness.
But things become easier. -Of course.
-It’s the same with them.
I teach them discipline, respect
and... How do you say? -Independence.
If by the age of 18
they don't become independent,
then I haven't succeeded in my job.
But the most important things
are discipline and respect.
I tell them: "If I managed with these
three things, then you can too."
But not everyone has to be
Zlatan Ibrahimović.
That's me, I can't speak on behalf
of others. -Not everyone is a monster.
Not everyone is 195 cm tall,
nor does have such a strong mind.
My children didn't have a phone
until they turned 13.
Even today, they don't have
Instagram profiles.
My older son has an Instagram profile,
but only through football.
The younger one still doesn't have one,
but his time will come.
When he starts playing football...
Actually, he already plays, but...
When he gets registered.
-Yes, that. Then he can have it.
Until the age of 14, they can't have
a private Instagram profile.
When we were in Beverly Hills,
not to brag,
but that's how I did it
when I played in Los Angeles...
When they go to school, everyone
has a driver... -A whole entourage.
There were only two bicycles in
front of the school, Vincent's and Maxi's.
I bought two bicycles and told them,
"You're going to school on your own."
I showed them how, and from that day
on they went by themselves.
They were kind of funny one day
because it was raining.
They asked what they were supposed
to do now, and I answered
that they should take their
bikes and go. And they did.
They thought they wouldn't
have to ride their bikes,
at least when it was raining.
I was firm and strong.
For their own good. -Yes, consistently.
-You didn't give up.
It was a long-term decision.
Maybe I isolated them too much from others,
but that was because of my situation.
I was well-known, we lived well,
and I didn't want anything to happen to them.
Little by little I eased up,
and now they go on their own.
That's just how I am. -A fantastic example.
-And it's the same with my wife.
When it comes to flying...
well, with me it's different.
When I travel, I fly by private jet
so people don't bother me. -Yes.
That's something completely different.
And the reason isn't that I have money.
Or if you're in a hurry. -Yes.
But when she travels,
she uses regular commercial flights.
EasyJet, Ryanair, and so on.
That's how she travels
with the children.
She says they need to see what
the real world actually looks like.
When you fly by private jet,
that just isn't possible.
That was important to both of us.
But I have to say, they're very grateful.
They don't ask for more than they have.
And that's why I always
use this as an example: "If I could
do it-starting with nothing,
become who I am today and achieve
what I have, then you can do it too.
Because what you have today is
200 percent more than what I had.
So if I could do it, you can too.
I'm proof of that.
Is that the right way to say it?
Yes, you are-the proof.
-That it's all possible. -Exactly.
You're fine player in the FBK Balkan,
but basically, at seventeen
you come to the city center
for the first time.
You started high school.
You said you weren't a bad student.
I was okay. I was disciplined.
There, on the grading scale from 1 to 5,
where 5 was the highest grade, I was a 3.
Like here-that's a "good."
-That was fine.
Then, while I was in school,
I was afraid of making mistakes.
That's something my father
instilled in me.
If I made a mistake, I was afraid
something would happen.
Fear of consequences?
-And that's what discipline was.
You were responsible, basically.
-When he told me
I had to be home by 9 PM,
I was afraid something would happen
if I didn't come home
exactly at that time.
The same thing happened at school.
That gave you a sense of responsibility. -Yes.
It's one kind of discipline.
I would be angry at myself
for not getting there earlier,
because that's not in my character.
-That's a terrible thing.
When we warm up at training,
there are white lines we run between.
I touch every one when I reach it.
That's my discipline.
Always? -Yes, always.
That's my discipline...
-Even in training?
Yes, because I was afraid
that if I didn't touch it,
something is gonna happen.
Because of that fear,
I always touched it.
In the end I realized
that if I don't touch it,
and if I steal a few meters,
I'm not stealing from you,
I'm stealing from myself.
I'm the one at a loss, no one else.
-That's intense.
So, if I have to run 10 km, my mentality
and discipline tell me to run the full ten.
If you, as my coach, say: "Ibra,
today we're running ten kilometers,"
I won't run nine, or 9.5, or 10.1.
I'll give you the full ten.
When I decide in my head it has to be ten,
I'll die if I have to-but it will be ten.
That's my mentality.
But wait... I read in a book
that you used to sneak onto buses
and the thing with the bikes...
-When we stole bikes?
It happened with a friend.
He brought me along and said,
"Instead of running for a long time,
we'll just get on the bus
and wait for them there."
Back then, I wasn't a professional.
I didn't think about the consequences.
I wasn't scared.
I was a bit wild. -Yeah.
-I'm going to tell you something now
that nobody knows,
and it's a little awkward.
When I came back after a knee injury,
after breaking both of them,
I was running on a treadmill.
The workout was six fast intervals,
two minutes each,
with just three seconds of rest.
That was the pace.
I was almost at the very end
when I suddenly felt the urge
to go to the toilet.
But I didn't go to the toilet.
While I was running, I literally
shat myself, but I kept running
because in my head I had to finish
first and then go. -Come on...
But that's who I am. I always said:
If I cheat, I cheat myself - not you.
I'm the one who loses, not you.
-Respect. -That's me.
Why did they assign you
a supervisor at school? That woman?
They said I was different
from the others. That I was wild.
And I didn't like that.
I got angry and started
being aggressive toward her,
even though it wasn't her fault.
They made me feel different.
And that wasn't right for me.
Once, while we were playing,
I grabbed her by the head.
That wasn't right either.
I shouldn't have done that.
-Yeah. -It's just that they...
The worst part is...
Now that I work in Milan,
when I train with the kids
from the academy
and I see that they behave differently,
I still treat them all the same.
To me, everyone is equal.
Later on, some of them
might turn out to be better,
but I believe everyone
deserves the same chance.
I don't know if you've seen the footage
from when I played in Paris,
where they switched the kid
next to me on the field.
Maybe the boy's father asked them
to put him beside me,
because he thought
it was more important.
But I said no.
"Go to the back, he stays here."
In my world, no one is different.
Everyone is equal.
We all have the same chance.
We're born with the same opportunities,
and it's up to us
what we do with our lives.
It depends on you.
-That's fairness, basically. Bravo.
That's how I think,
that's how I was raised.
And it's the same lesson
I want to pass on to others.
So, Malmö... it's going well.
I mean, well in the academy.
In Malmö, you had a problem with...
-Everyone seemed to be against me.
They had already signed a contract,
but I was so good they couldn't
get rid of me or block me.
I was just too good.
In the end, I signed the contract
and took the first step
toward the first team
and professional football.
They realized who I was.
190... Actually, back then I was 188 cm.
-You were still growing, you were young.
I was skinny. -Slim. -Yeah, slim.
When I was playing,
they could see I was different.
They said, "We'll give him a chance."
And then everything exploded.
Because I wasn't like the others.
They said I was arrogant,
because, even back then, I would say
that I was the best.
I would say there wasn't
a single player in Sweden
who was better than me.
And I was only 17 or 18.
Even then, I had a lot of confidence
and I thought I was the best.
I grew up in Rosengård,
where it was either me or them.
Who would survive?
And that pushed me forward.
But for them, it wasn't normal.
In Sweden, equality is important.
-No gladiator fights.
They watch everyone and say,
"What are you doing?"
You arrive in a nice car
and immediately they ask,
"Where did you get that?"
And I had already told them
that I was the best of all,
that there was no one better than me,
and they didn't like it. It bothered them.
They said I was arrogant, a prima donna,
that I thought I was "something"...
An individualist. -I believe that
if a person says he's smart, intelligent,
it means he has confidence,
not arrogance.
It's not arrogance, it's self-confidence.
If I know who I am
and what I can do, I will do it.
Yes, but you have to respect people.
-You have to respect what they think.
But that wasn't the case there.
It was different.
Many things weren't okay for them.
And I've always been myself.
Even when I signed the contract
and became well-known, I stayed the same.
If you ask people who've known me
for 20 years, they'll tell you:
"He's the same as he was 20 years ago."
The only thing that's changed for me
is my bank account
and that I became popular.
But as a person,
I've always been the same.
I promised myself that
I would never change for anyone.
Maybe I paid a price for that,
and I never won the Ballon d'Or.
Alright. -But we can talk about
that later. -We definitely will.
Modrić won, but I could have won too.
I could have had that "perfect image,"
but I wanted to stay true to myself.
It all comes down to your behavior,
actually, to your perception of everything.
Not everyone is okay with one person
saying and doing whatever they want.
Yes, it's not accepted.
-It's not "mainstream."
You said that people change
every five years.
When you came to Malmö's academy at 17,
you faced resistance
from both parents and players.
They said you were an individualist,
that you only thought about yourself,
that you were arrogant,
that you ignored them, and so on.
They wanted to kick me out of the team
because I was aggressive.
And later you... like Mourinho...
Let's say that's true...
Later you turned into a fantastic leader,
with a mentality,
that every coach would wish for,
with that kind of mindset.
Mourinho said that you were
his extended arm. -Yes.
That you were his "extended hand."
-Yes... -An extended arm on the pitch.
A phenomenal thing. They even wrote
some kind of petition, didn't they?
To get you expelled,
because you hit some kid?
I injured my head because of him.
It was a moment in a duel.
When things happen...
not in a second, but in a millimeter...
How do you say it...?
-Emotions, feelings...
And it didn't happen to me just once,
it happened a hundred times.
The parents of that player tried to get me
kicked out of the team in Malmö.
They wrote some... -A petition? -Yes.
For everyone to sign it and to throw me
out of Malmö, out of the club.
But the coach was a great man.
When he saw that petition...
And when was supposed to sign it...
-He protected you? -He protected me.
He said: "What is this? They're kids,
this happens." It should be a lesson.
Today, if you want to be perfect
as a human being,
you have to make the effort yourself
to become perfect.
You make mistakes, you learn, you
make mistakes again and you learn.
But when you take care of yourself,
then you are perfect. -Yes.
Everyone looks for perfection,
for an image, a name,
a perfect picture of themselves.
They want to be that,
but my world doesn't work that way.
If you respect me, I will respect you.
You are who you are.  -I don't ask you
to love me or hate me.
That's your opinion and your choice.
I don't ask you about that,
because if I ask about it,
I already make a mistake.
If you like me, fine, if you don't,
that's fine too. Then respect comes.
That's how it is.
I've noticed that many
athletes want to be perfect.
That doesn't work. Tiger Woods
wanted to be the most perfect,
but what happened to him?
That's the problem. -Exactly.
You have to work on yourself.
We will make mistakes and learn,
because no one is perfect
or programmed. That's not right.
You have to work on yourself,
but you also have your upbringing,
what kind of person you are, what kind
of character you have, and all that.
You have ups and downs,
on a daily basis. -That's all normal.
There are moments when you make mistakes
and moments when things go well.
That's why I always look to be on my own,
because then I have responsibility.
I am an example to the new generation.
I can't have flaws that they
would think are acceptable.
You have a responsibility to be
a positive example? -Yes.
But you have to give your best
and be in your comfort zone.
If you're not in your comfort zone,
then it's hard, you're not living your life.
You're living a life,
but it's not really you.
I've noticed that there's
a lot of that in America.
They look for a perfect image.
-Everyone is pretending.
Basically, it's all an act...
Twenty people around them to make
them perfect... That's a movie.
Who were your idols in sports,
in life, and in football?
At the beginning, it was Muhammad Ali.
-Because of your father?
Yes, because of my father.
I used to sit in front of the TV
and watch Muhammad Ali.
Back then we watched
black-and-white videos on TV.
I listened to the way he spoke.
In Swedish schools, English
was taught in the fourth grade, right?
Yes, in the fourth grade.
I was seven or eight years old
then and I understood English.
I listened to him speak.
He wasn't arrogant.
He was confident,
that's a big difference.
Everyone needs to understand that.
Many people think he was arrogant,
but he wasn't, it was confidence.
It's close. -No, it's confidence.
The difference is that Muhammad
lived what he spoke.
"Walk the walk and talk the talk".
-Exactly. That's the biggest difference.
Some people talk, but their actions
don't match their words.
That's arrogance, they don't understand.
That's a clown.
The confident, one who spoke, showed it.
In my world, I thought...
Rosengård, ghetto and all that.
I'll be confident like Muhammad.
I'll show that I'm the best.
Not in other things, only in football.
That was constantly on my mind.
I wanted to be an idol like him.
I turned boxing into football.
I started watching a lot of football.
And Ronaldo, the Brazilian, for me was...
I always say, when you see
that player on the pitch,
you should do what he does.
And that's it. He is the best player.
He steps over the ball,
goes right, left and escapes.
The next day on the pitch I try to do that.
When you copy another player, that's top.
Everything else... we have great players
and we can do things in different ways,
but when you copy another player,
that's the difference.
That's top-level. He was that for me.
When he did the "elastico"... -Yes.
At that time there was YouTube,
there wasn't TikTok, Instagram...
So I had to go to the school library...
I wasn't allowed to be there,
because I was supposed to be in class...
Yes, in class. -But I didn't go to class.
I went to the library to research
on YouTube how he did it.
And I observe, I watch, hiding
so no one would see me...
And I watch on YouTube how it's done.
I analyze it, slow it down, and...
At training in Malmö, I try to do it.
In the end, I had my own style.
So, with Muhammad Ali's confidence,
"you walk like you talk,"
and then Ronaldo,
with all the things he did,
that was my desire... to play like that.
I wanted to be like that. -Bravo!
To finish with your childhood,
and something that's more
an opinion than a question.
I'd like you to tell me
something about this.
All the guests on the show
come  from generations
where nobody was excessively rich
or extremely poor.
However, all of them had
extraordinary family support.
Đoković, Janica Kostelić,
Ivanišević, Modrić, everyone...
Karabatić, Džeko, Stanić...
But you said that when you were little,
no one asked you:"How are you, Zlatan?"
There was no one to help you
with homework,
you weren't even allowed to cry,
if someone was rough with you.
When all that happened around me,
it was such a... not panic...
but a story about me... -A mess?
-Things were happening too fast.
When journalists started talking
about me on TV, day after day,
it was as if a bomb had exploded.
Back then I was making mistakes,
they contacted me...
At that time, everyone could contact me.
I answered questions and talked to them.
If they were journalists,
the next day everything
I said would be in the newspapers.
During that period, the World Cup was
taking place. Sweden went to America.
I said I would go together with the team
and that we would win the World Cup.
The very next day,
it was in the newspapers.
I was... -"In".
It wasn't hard to reach me,
like it is today.
Today, if someone were looking for me,
they would have to talk to a lot of people.
Back then, everything was accessible.
A lot of things happened.
At that time, paparazzi weren't
a common sight in Sweden,
but because of me,
they started to appear.
They began following me through
the streets or when I went to a restaurant.
I asked Henrik Larsson what I should do
to calm the situation down,
to get the paparazzi under control.
It became impossible,
they followed me every day. At one point,
headlines appeared: "Zlatan fever."
Zlatan fever like gold fever.
Every day they talked about me,
in the newspapers, on TV...
Back then, social media didn't exist,
yet the news still came out every day.
I asked him what I should do.
He was about 30 years old
and had much more experience.
I asked him to tell me
where I was making mistakes.
He told me: "Listen, I can't help you.
I don't think anyone can help you,
because this has never happened
to anyone in Sweden before."
I thought about it for a moment
and said: "Only I can help myself".
To find the streets I should move through.
That's how I'll control the situation.
I'll allow myself to feel good.
And to play football.
But If I make mistakes,
I know what I need to do.
That's why I did everything
on my own. I had no choice...
My father, Šefik, didn't know
how to advise me.
He sang, stayed at home,
and had his own war in his head.
My mother worked as a cleaner,
took care of three children,
and thought about how she
would feed them.
She didn't know what
was happening to me.
The first time I signed a contract
to go to Ajax,
my mother saw my picture on TV
and thought I had died,
because usually when someone dies,
they show a photo,
and her Swedish was poor.
She saw my photo on TV,
the breaking news,
and ten seconds later, she called me
to check what had happened.
I told her then that I was going
to play football for Ajax.
She insisted that I tell her what
had happened and I explained that
from now on I would be playing
football professionally.
She thought I was joking
and hung up the phone.
She didn't believe I was going
to play football either.
I didn't have a mentor.
Someone to guide you,
a teacher to show you what to do.
Or teammates who believed in me.
No one believed in me.
You were looking for a new path?
-I looked for it myself and found it.
I fought, and in the end, I got here.
That's why I say, if I could do it,
then anyone can do it.
I am living proof that it works.